======================================
Go-Ambulance: A Smart IoT-Based System
======================================

Name: Yeong Mang Sen

System demonstration video link: https://youtu.be/OMNPbBUApVc

*Abstract
*Problem Statement
*Obejctive

*How to run the system
*How to run the Arduino Code
*How to receieve the alert message from the smart phone

--------------------------------------
ABSTRACT
--------------------------------------

In densely populated countries, there are a huge number of people their live everyday as a result of car accidents and inadequate emergency facilities. 
These lives can be saved if the emergency and first aid medical assistance had been provided at the right time. 
This project proposes an IoT system that can address this issue when a vehicle is involved in a car accident. 
This proposed system had been evaluated and implemented practically using Arduino hardware components, and the results have met the expectations. 
The vibration sensor detects the change in collision impact of vehicle and the GSM module will send the alert message to your parent’s mobile phone and hospital with providing the current accident location. 
The current accident location is generated by using the GPS module's latitude and longitude and sent in form of Google Map link. 
A SOS button (switch) is used to activate the buzzer if the driver feeling ill or requires emergency immediately. 
Driver would able to stop the message from being sent by pressing a reset button (switch) when they do not require any ambulance services and save the ambulance’s precious time. 
Vehicle rescue systems will becoming increasingly popular among owners of automobiles in coming the future.


--------------------------------------
PROBLEM STATEMENT
--------------------------------------

Emergencies such as road accidents and disease attacks which require the ambulance services. Before the emergency department sent an ambulance to the scene, there are some problems that often arise. Among them are:
i.	When a car accident occurs, the callers are unable to provide correct scene information. It will cause the delay in the arrival of ambulance to the accident spot and causes the loss of human life
ii.	Nowadays most of the cars are lack some safety and rescue systems such as GPS system and collision sensor to detect any car accident.
iii.If the passenger and driver are unconscious in a car accident, they are incapable of saving themselves and seeking help from the hospital. 


--------------------------------------
OBJECTIVE
--------------------------------------

The objectives of this system are:
1.	to design an IoT-based system that can help the hospital and driver’s parent to get the driver’s information such as the driver's current location and phone number during a car accident occur.
2.	to develop a smart IoT-based system that can detect the vehicle’s collision during car accident.
3.	to test the functionalities of the IoT-based system mainly concentrates on mainline functions, basic usability, accessibility and the error conditions.



--------------------------------------
HOW TO RUN THE SYSTEM
--------------------------------------



2 ways to implementated Go-Ambulance System
-------------------------------------------
[1] Download the website zip file and extract it, then pull the folder into the XAMPP htdocs file & run the XAMPP. The SQL table are provide in the db folder of GoAmbulance_System.Open the http://localhost/phpmyadmin/ then insert a new table from the ambulance.sql from db of GoAmbulance_System. Next you can open the Go-Ambulance System through the website http://localhost/GoAmbulance_System/ .
[2] If this link https://goambulancewithasmartiotbsedsystem.000webhostapp.com/GoAmbulance_System////index.html are unable to access/ to be functioning well, you can procceed to the way[1] stated above.  
	


User Site
---------

[1] Open the website link https://goambulancewithasmartiotbsedsystem.000webhostapp.com/GoAmbulance_System////index.html
[2]	New user should register a new account.
[3]	Login the account using the email that had registered and using the default password "1234".
[4]	User can reset their password and user personal detail in "My Profile".
[5]	Entering the old password "1234" and reset a new password.
[6]	User can view the report generated by the ThingSpeak.
[7] User also can view or request the ambulance service status to the current location of car accident when they received the alert message from the driver.

Amdin site
----------

[1] Login Account using the following username adn password.
	username = admin@gmail.com
	password = admin
 
 
-------------------------------------
HOW TO RUN THE ARDUINO CODE
-------------------------------------

[1] Download the Arduino Code of Go-Ambulance: A Smart IoT-Based System zip file from 3_AI190185_Go-Ambulance with A Smart IoT-Based System
[2]	Extract the file
[3] Download Arduino IDE
[4] Open the Arduino Code on Arduino IDE
[5] Verified the code
[6] You can view the sensor data on ThingSpeak. 
[7]	ThingSpeak data are provide as shown as the following link: 
	https://thingspeak.com/channels/1735582/charts/1?bgcolor=%23ffffff&color=%23d62020&dynamic=true&results=60&type=line&update=15
	& 
	https://thingspeak.com/channels/1735582/charts/2?bgcolor=%23ffffff&color=%23d62020&dynamic=true&results=60&title=Button+State+of+Push+Button&type=line
	
	
	
-----------------------------------------------------
HOW TO RECEIVE THE ALERT MESSAGE FROM THE SMART PHONE
-----------------------------------------------------

[1] Change the phone number on the Arduino code
[2] Make sure that you have the complete Arduino elements
[3]	Make sure that all the wire connection are true, and the SIM card should active and have balance
[4] You will receive the message when the vibration sensor is greater than the threshold or push button is pressed.


## Hope you enjoy my Go-Ambulance: A Smart IoT-Based System
Thank you~

